Below are some examples of my current and past research projects:

## Dissertation: A Novel Approach to Statistical Problems Without Identifiability
- https://www.proquest.com/docview/3094176182?parentSessionId=2gQJnbc%2FSsl5arpaQ4Eg2BrREu%2B87ttdOAl4To0Fzzc%3D&sourcetype=Dissertations%20&%20Theses
## The Effect of Analytic Variation on Empirical Biological Variation Derived Analytic Performance Specifications in the Veterinary Clinical Pathology Laboratory.
- Background: The empirical biologic variation (EBV) method to derive analytical performance
specifications (APSs) has been provisionally evaluated for use in the veterinary clinical
pathology laboratory. Analytical performance can affect EBV APSs. It has been argued that this
effect is minimal but the effect has not been evaluated for the range of performance found in
veterinary laboratories.
- I conducted a Monte Carlo simulation to approximate the sampling distributions of analytical performance speficications (APSs) derived from the empirical biological variation to show the relation between the APSs and the analytical variation used in the EBV method.
- Currently in peer review.
## Off-Highway Vehicle Use Degrades a Mountain Stream: A Case Study Evaluating Recreation Impacts, Restoration Efficacy, and Assessing Vulnerability of Headwater Streams in the Central Rocky Mountains
- Headwater streams are abundant in mountain landscapes and where municipal watersheds occur on public lands; they co-occur with road networks open to off-highway vehicle (OHV) use. Despite well-known, deleterious interactions of roads and streams, few studies have empirically examined the biophysical impacts of OHV use where backcountry roads enter streams at open-water crossings. We present a case study using a controlled design where we quantified OHV road impacts in a Rocky Mountain stream and evaluated the restoration efficacy by examining aquatic biota and habitat before and after restoration treatments. Prior to restoration, stream habitat structure was simplified and the abundance, biomass, and diversity of aquatic biota were severely reduced in OHV-affected compared to reference reaches. Restoration included the removal of riparian OHV roads, rebuilding streambanks and bedforms, and additions of large wood. Following restoration and 2 years of spring snow-melt runoff, some, but not all, aquatic habitat had recovered, and aquatic biota were more similar to conditions in reference reaches. We included a vulnerability assessment for streams draining ~5 M Ha of public lands in the Rocky Mountains, indicating the greatest threat of similar OHV impacts to 2nd- and 3rd-order streams in watersheds deemed important for municipal supplies. Our study provides insights that may aid in effective prevention approaches and restoration of similar sites.
- https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/rra.4433
## Non-identifiability of Random Coefficient Regression Models and Their Stochastic Inverse Solutions
- The random coefficient regression model is an extension of the classical linear regression model that accounts for individual variation by treating the regression coefficients as random variables. A major interest lies in the estimation of the joint distribution of these random coefficients based on the observable output distributions. Existing approaches to random coefficient regression often rely on unverifiable model assumptions that ensure the identifiability of the coefficient distribution. In contrast, we consider fixed-design random coefficient regression, under which the coefficient distribution is not identifiable. In consideration of non-identifiability, we formulate the estimation of the coefficient distribution as a stochastic inverse problem (SIP), allowing for a more flexible nonparametric approach with minimal assumptions. An equivalence class of joint distributions is considered in which each element is a solution to the SIP and is thus a plausible estimate of the coefficient distribution. To identify the elements within the desired class, we propose an approach by incorporating an initial guess of a solution called the global ansatz. The global ansatz is updated iteratively by matching its induced output distributions with the observed data. We show the proposed approach converges and demonstrate its performance through simulation studies. The proposed approach is applied to a real data set from an acupuncture clinical trial.
- Currently in peer review.
## Comparing Binary and Normal D-optimal Designs by Statistical Power
- In many applications binary response variables are unavoidable.  Many have considered D-optimal design of experiments for generalized linear models.  However, little consideration has been given to assessing how these new designs perform in terms of statistical power for a given hypothesis test.  Monte Carlo simulations and exact power calculations suggest that D‑optimal designs generally yield higher power than binary D-optimal designs, despite using logistic regression in the analysis after data have been collected.  Results from using statistical power to compare designs contradict traditional design of experiments comparisons, which employ D-efficiency ratios and fractional design space plots.  Power calculations suggest that practitioners that are primarily interested in the resulting statistical power of a design should use normal D‑optimal designs over binary D-optimal designs when logistic regression is to be used in the data analysis after data collection.
- https://research.testscience.org/researchers/addison-adams/
## Statistical Analysis of Cameron Peak Fire Impact on Water Chemisty
- The Cameron Peak Fire was the largest fire in Colorado state history, occuring in 2020. Working with researchers at the Rocky Mountain Research Station, I used regression with ARIMA errors to estimate the impact of the fire on the water chemistry in the Cache la Poudre watershed for 2021 and 2022.
## A Few Highlighted IDA Reports
- Butler, Lindsey D., Adams, Addison D., Haman, John T., Nobles, Kadie P. and Webber, Thomas R. 2025. Revised Draft Input for the Hard Body Armor Ballistic Test Protocol. IDA Product 3004624.
- Colci O’Hara, Madalina, Adams, Addison D., Green, Elizabeth A. and Tranfaglia, Joseph C. 2025. Final Review of the SkyTower 
 II Quick Reaction Assessment Test Plan. IDA Product 3004801.
- Adams, Addison D. DeBisschop, Kevin M., Green, Elizabeth A., Tranfaglia, Joseph C. and Weber, Paul W. 2025. (U) Test and Evaluation Concept for the Common Tactical Truck (CTT). IDA Product 3002802.
- Adams, Addison D., Webber, Thomas R. and Weber, Paul W. 2025. Power Analysis of Soldier-in-the-Loop Aim Error Test Plan. IDA Product 3004434.
- Medlin, Rebecca M. and Adams, Addison D. 2023. JSM 2023: Comparing Normal and Binary D-Optimal Designs by Statistical Power. IDA Product 3000032. 
- Lefebvre, Jonathan N., Adams, Addison D., Allison, Stacey L., Tranfaglia, Joseph C., Vickers, Brian D. 2025. Test and Evaluation Concept for Future Tactical Uncrewed Aircraft System.
- Butler, Lindsey D., Adams, Addison D., Brady, Matthew D., Weber, Paul W., Cseko Jr., Andrew, Grandinetti III, Saul A., and Webber, Thomas R. 2025. Next Generation Squad Weapon (NGSW) Lethality Integrated Assessment Test and Evaluation Concept. 
- Haman, John T., Medlin, Rebecca M., and Adams, Addison D. 2025. Design of Experiments (DOE) for Operational and Live Fire Test Planning.
  
